TELCODOCS-1237: VRFs for consistent isolated routes (#61548)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-metallb-configure-vrf-bgppeer.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/metallb/metallb-configure-bgp-peers.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-metallb-bgp-peer-vrf_{context}"]
= Configuring a BGP peer to advertise a service through a VRF

> You can expose a service through a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance by associating the VRF with a BGP peer. By using a VRF to expose a service through a BGP peer, you can segregate traffic to the service, configure independent routing decisions, and enable multi-tenancy support on a network interface.

Author: Note added

* Deploy a service to test the configuration.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You defined a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` to associate a Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF) instance with a network interface. For more information about completing this prerequisite, see the _Additional resources_ section.

.Procedure

. Create `BGPPeer` and `BFDProfile` custom resources (CR).

.. Create a file, such as `frrviavrf.yaml`, with content like the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta2
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: frrviavrf
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  myASN: 100
  peerASN: 200
  peerAddress: 192.168.130.1
  vrf: ens4vrf <1>
  bfdProfile: testprofile
---
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: BFDProfile <2>
metadata:
  name: testprofile
  namespace: metallb-system
----
<1> Defines the VRF instance to associate with the BGP peer. MetalLB can advertise services and make routing decisions based on the routing information in the VRF.
<2> Use a BFD profile for the BGP sessions for more rapid failure detection in routes.

> .. Apply the configuration for the BGP peer and BFD profile by running the follow command:

Author: We use `BGPPeer` for specific instances, but refer to BGP peer when referring in general. Anyway, I think I will leave it for now but get it peer reviewed for style later.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f frrviavrf.yaml
----

. Create an `IPAddressPool` CR.

.. Create a file, such as `first-pool.yaml`, with content like the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: IPAddressPool
metadata:
  name: first-pool
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  addresses:
  - 192.169.10.0/24
----

.. Apply the configuration for the IP address pool by running the follow command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f first-pool.yaml
----

. Create a `BGPAdvertisement` CR.

.. Create a file, such as `first-adv.yaml`, with content like the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: BGPAdvertisement
metadata:
  name: first-adv
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  ipAddressPools:
    - first-pool
  peers:
    - frrviavrf <1>

>   nodeSelectors:

Author: I will delete from here and include in the full workflow. 
I'm still unsure where the full workflow should be tbh! Might it be appropriate to not document the full workflow in the main OCP docs? Instead, document the independent functionality in the main docs and document the Telco-specific, complete workflow in a knowledge article? Whatever works best for the customer I guess as I believe this is important for Telco partners

    - matchLabels:
        egress-service.k8s.ovn.org/test-server1: "" <2>
----
<1> In this example, MetalLB advertises a range of IP addresses from the `first-pool` IP address pool to the `frrviavrf` BGP peer. 

> <2> Optional: To use the same return path for the traffic originating from the pod, specify the node to advertise as the next hop for the service. 

Reviewer: This is not true per se. It's true when using this together with the egress ip feature

.. Apply the configuration for the BGP advertisement by running the follow command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f first-adv.yaml
----

. Create a `Namespace`, `Deployment` and `Service` CR.

.. Create a file, such as `deploy-service.yaml`, with content like the following example:
+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: test
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: server
  namespace: test
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: server
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: server
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: server

>         image: quay.io/centos7/httpd-24-centos7 

Reviewer: Just double check what we suggest in the other examples

Author: Using `registry.redhat.io/rhel9/httpd-24` might be more appropriate but will check further later.

----
$ oc apply -f first-adv.yaml
----

. Create a `Namespace`, `Deployment` and `Service` CR.

.. Create a file, such as `deploy-service.yaml`, with content like the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: test
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: server
  namespace: test
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: server
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: server
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: server
        image: registry.redhat.io/rhel9/httpd-24 
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 30100
        command: ["/bin/sh", "-c"]
        args: ["sleep INF"] 
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: server1
  namespace: test
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 30100
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 30100
  selector:
    app: server
  type: LoadBalancer
----

.. Apply the configuration for the namespace, deployment, and service by running the follow command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f deploy-service.yaml
----

.Verification

. Get the external IP address for the service by running the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----

> $ oc get service -n test <1>

Reviewer: The right way to verify this part is to enter in the frr container of the speaker pods and check the output for
```
vtysh -c "show bgp vrf xxx neigh
```
and see if the connection is in established state.

Also, running `vtysh -c "show bgp vrf xxx ipv4` to check if the service is advertised correctly.

Author: I need some help with example output for the second command as I am not able to replicate this workflow in full.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/metallb/metallb-configure-bgp-peers.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-metallb-bgp-peer-vrf_{context}"]
= Configuring a BGP peer to advertise a service through a VRF

You can expose a service through a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance by associating the VRF with a BGP peer. 

:FeatureName: Exposing a service through a VRF on a BGP peer
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

By using a VRF to expose a service through a BGP peer, you can segregate traffic to the service, configure independent routing decisions, and enable multi-tenancy support on a network interface.

[NOTE]
====
Exposing a service through a VRF associated with a BGP peer creates a dedicated route to a particular node within the {product-title} cluster. This network configuration does not directly integrate with the OVN network in the cluster.

> ====

Reviewer 2: Not sure what the intention of this Note is

Author: Updated the note, it was due to this [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/61548#discussion_r1246743242) from Federico but perhaps I haven't captured it correctly.

Reviewer: see my suggestion https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/61548/files#r1276348772

> Exposing a service through a network VRF that you associate with a BGP peer creates a dedicated route to a particular node within the {product-title} cluster. This network configuration does not directly integrate with the OVN network in the cluster. To integrate the traffic with the OVN network fabric you must configure routing rules to define next hops for network traffic. See the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` resource in "Managing symmetric routing with MetalLB" in the _Additional resources_ section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By establishing a BGP session via an interface belonging to a VRF, MetalLB will be able to advertise services via that interface, and it will allow the traffic directed to the service on such interface. Because of the VRF, the routing table is going to be different from the default VRF's one, and the traffic won't be able to reach the OVN-Kubernetes network fabric. In order to make the traffic directed to the service reach the OVN network fabric you must configure routing rules to define next hops for network traffic. See the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` resource in "Managing symmetric routing with MetalLB" in the _Additional resources_ section for more information.
```
